Alfie Kohn's "The Case Against Grades" Reflection

Alfie Kohn's "The Case Against Grades" was interesting tto me, as it is something I could easily relate to.  In some of my more challenging classes, for instance Linear Algebra 3, when I learned we had the opportunity to choose our own project from a selection of options, I was moreover interested in which project I thought would be the easiest to complete rather than looking at one that would be most interesting.  Obviously, this goes against what the intention of the project was and what I should have done.  Finding ways to balance orbits of planets using linear algebra techniques is __significantly__ more interesting than what we neded up doing in finding general equations for solving sums of higher powers.  Our group decided the grade was more important than expanding our knowledge of the subject, and part of this was driven by knowing we could get an easier A by doing so.

Grades to me our a judgement on how well you can follow rules and guidelines.  As breaking away from the guidelines puts yourself, or group, at risk of a reduced grade for simply not following directionns, even if in doing so you find a deeper interest in the subject or gain a greater hold on complex subjects.  Although I am by no means able to propose a way to 'grade' individuals to show progress, completion, or comprehension, I do not belive grades accurately represent how well an individual can perform ona  given task.  Grades, in my perspective, do not take into account the creative thinking behind problem soving, they can't quantify the leaps in understanding made by someone while working through difficult situations, nor do they incentive students for thinking outside the box and expanding on a passion he/she/they may have.  My experience with grading systems is both positive in negative, this being because there have been many occasions where I know I understand the overall concept (for instance integral rules in Calc 2), but come test day I paniced as I had not slept well, I could not find my TI-84 CE and had to use someone elses TI-83 (which I assume most people understand the issues behind switching layouts), and the accompanying anxiety from these fallout situations.  

I wish grades would not be removed per se, but I do wish that something could adequately take their place to shift focus from obtaining an A to expanding knowledge further in a field that is found to be interesting.  The motiviation would come to drive learning in an understanding environment encouraged by discussion versus one of competition.  I do however see a fault in my process, that being having ot take classes that are found to be uninteresting or 'boring'.  This has happened to me before in order to meet general education requirements at GVSU, and I find my motivation, even with trying to get that A grade, is lackluster becuase the material is simply not interesting; however, I must meet the general education requirements and therefore have little choice in classes based on what can fit into my schedule.

In my experiences thus far, the mastery based learning I experienced in Calc 2, Calc 3, and discrete mathematics was by far the mos tpositive learning experience I have had in college.  These types of classes were not stuck to a strict grading scale, and students had many opportunities to retest for the required skills to earn their mastery.  This still had elements of grading of course, be it a non-mastered target or mastered, but this was as close as I have seen to a course not adhering to a gradinng scale.  If this methodology was implemented across most or all classes, I truly believe the educational system at all levels from kindergarten to college would benefit from relieving the stress of attaining the passing grade or attempting to get a 4.0 GPA.

